---
title: 'Artificial Intelligence (AI) Framework for Venture Capital Industry: How to Predict Startups’ Success in Primary Market'
excerpt: "**CEO @** [**DeepSearch.AI**](http://120.27.9.73), **funded by Angel round investment**, ongoing <br><br> 
Asymmetry widely appears in venture capital industry including information, knowledge, relationship et al, which heavily affects investors' decision making. 
Our startup focus on data-driven venture capital revolution, aiming to empowering investors to discover unicorns. Besides, our technical team supports various data scraping demands.
If you need some data to do research or other things, feel free to contact me. We can help you!"
date: 2017-01-01
permalink: /posts/2017/01/project-1/
tags:
  - Venture Capital
  - Data Science
  - Artificial Intelligence
  - FinTech
  - Prediction
  
---

## Why this research is significant?
* Find a right startup to invest and exist is key to survival of VCs

## Background and existed research
* Empirical studies lack because of quantitative data lacks.
* Some factors which have effects on startups’ success are studied. However, the perspective stands at startups rather than venture capitals who focus on exists.
* Although venture capitals have some general rules to do investment, it is not easy to do decision when investors face a specific case.

## Method
* Independent variables: to be extended
  * Macroeconomics environment
  * Basics
  * Macroeconomics environment
  * Funding history
  * Team
  * Media exposure
  * Operation
  * Endorsement by VCs
* Dependent variables: come to next round, investors exist
  * Whether come to next round
* Regression model: find key factors (significance test)
* Prediction: Deep Learning, Neural Networks

## Dataset
* 200,000+ TMT (Telecom, Media, Technology) companies

## Reference
* Gompers, Paul, and Josh Lerner. "The venture capital revolution." The journal of economic perspectives 15.2 (2001): 145-168.
* Gompers, Paul, et al. "Venture capital investment cycles: The impact of public markets." Journal of Financial Economics 87.1 (2008): 1-23.
* Gompers, Paul, et al. How Do Venture Capitalists Make Decisions?. No. w22587. National Bureau of Economic Research, 2016.
* Kaplan, Steven N., and Josh Lerner. "Venture capital data: Opportunities and challenges." Measuring Entrepreneurial Businesses: Current Knowledge and Challenges. University of Chicago Press, 2016.
* Song, Michael, et al. "Success factors in new ventures: A meta‐analysis." Journal of product innovation management 25.1 (2008): 7-27.
